Matar paneer samosa
hi welcome to Sanjeev Kapoor Khazana I'm
shy and let's make a simple snack today
let's make mutter paneer samosa now
we'll go through the ingredients of this
recipe to make mutter and paneer samosa
we would require some green peas cottage
cheese or paneer coriander leaves salt
ginger refined flour or mega green
chillies cumin seeds red chilli powder
chaat masala garam masala powder some
ready-made samosa strips oil for deep
frying
to begin with we'll prepare of stuffing
or a filling for the samosa for that I
have taken a mixer jar in which we'll
put the green peas
these are boiled green peas let's add
some chillies chopped chillies some
ginger cumin seeds or jeera some fresh
coriander leaves and some salt and now
we'll grind this mixture to a coarse
paste don't want a very fine paste I
think that is perfectly fine let's take
it out in a big bowl so I have a bowl
over here
so let's take out the prepared mixture
in a bowl so this will add the cottage
cheese or the paneer and some powdered
spices like red chilli powder chaat
masala and garam masala powder give it a
mix so as you can see a stuffing is now
ready
we'll keep it aside and now we'll
prepare a paste we'll prepare the paste
of refined flour we'll add some water to
it this is basically to seal the samosa
parties that you are going to fry there
are little bit water and make it into a
thick paste mix it well if you feel that
the water is less you can certainly add
some more water but I think not require
any more water this is a perfect thick
paste that is how we want it keep this
also side now I have some ready-made
some
our strips over here these are readily
available in the market they're in the
frozen form what you can do is you can
get them put them in your freezer and
use them as in when require while using
take them out of the freezer put it in
the refrigerator so that the temperature
of the samosa strips will come down and
they will be pliable something like this
now I have kept these phimosis lips
outside for quite a long time that is
why I have put a muslin cloth of wet
muslin cloth on the samosa steps so that
they do not dry okay so your are the
samosa strips
let's start making the samosas we'll
take a samosa strip put it on a chopping
board or a surface and will apply the
prepared refined flour paste on the
sides and spread it nicely this is
basically done to allow the strip to
stick while we stop the samosa place a
portion of the stuffing on one Fred of
the samosa and just fold one side over
the other see a nice triangle is forming
make sure that your edges are sealed at
all the times you can see the samosas
are nice and ready let's prepare some
more samosas in the similar way so we
have prepared some samosas and I've also
heated some oil in a kadai let's fry
them fry them till they are nice and
golden brown in colour make sure that
the temperature of the oil is not too
high neither it is too low if the
temperature of the oil is too low the
samosa parties will absorb much oil and
they will turn soggy and if the
temperature is too high the samosa
strips will all born from the outside so
just to maintain the temperature of the
oil okay you can see the samosas after a
nice and golden round let's take them
out on an absorbent paper so as to get
rid of any excess oil from the samosas
samosas are ready let's arrange them on
a serving platter mutter paneer Musa is
ready serve it hot with green chutney or
tomato ketchup
Oh